You have just left your doctor's appointment, having received a new prescription for your medical condition. You travel to the pharmacy nearest to your house and wait in the line until the pharmacist calls you up. When you give the pharmacist your information they tell you to wait, head to the back and eventually return empty handed. You are then told that not only is that medication not currently available at that pharmacy, but it has been discontinued entirely. You feel confused and lost.

SWAP is a mobile app for pharmaceutical customers which notifies its users of any shortages or outages that may impact a patients ability to receive their necessary medications. Due to the potentially critical nature of this situation, SWAP is built to provide up-to-date drug alternatives to currently unreachable prescriptions in an attempt to reduce patient inconvenience and even save lives.

SWAP provides two main technical functionalities. The first is the application's notification process. This is when users are notified in real time that the prescriptions they use are currently at risk of being in short supply. The database that supports these notifications is US Pharmacopeia's Medical Supply Map. The Medical Supply Map is a new data driven technology that maps drugs shortages caused by events such as global health crises, natural disasters and manufacturing recalls with the areas most expected to be impacted. While currently the Medical Supply Map is distributor facing, we believe that SWAP could provide the necessary functionality for individual patient-facing utility.

The second functionality that SWAP provides to users is its Drug Alternative Suggestion Hub or DASH. The DASH will make suggestions of drug alternatives to whatever medicine is in short supply for something more obtainable. SWAP will then proceed to inform the user on the suggested drug's side effects and prompt the user to contact their doctor and consider those alternatives. DASH's technology will also be data driven; combining a myriad of drug category, chemical reactive, and ailment solutions data bases that, combined with the Medical Supply Map, will offer a solution to our users problem.

In conclusion, our application SWAP is designed to help users find a potential alternative prescription in the event that their current one is in risk of running out of supply, and encourages users to contact their doctors about the potential drug alternatives that are currently more available. So that they won’t have to worry about going even one day without feeling safe.
